README.MD, before:

<br>
<br>
<p align="center">
  <picture>
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://cdn.builder.io/api/v1/image/assets%2FYJIGb4i01jvw0SRdL5Bt%2F44413839f214431290930e447572b843">
    <img width="400" alt="Mitosis logo" src="https://cdn.builder.io/api/v1/image/assets%2FYJIGb4i01jvw0SRdL5Bt%2F570f689e59824cb78cf5773350ab4144">
  </picture>
</p>

<p align="center">
  Write components once, compile to every framework
</p>

<br>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/prettier/prettier"><img alt="code style: prettier" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/code_style-prettier-ff69b4.svg" /></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/BuilderIO/mitosis/pulls"><img alt="PRs Welcome" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg" /></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/BuilderIO/mitosis"><img alt="License" src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/BuilderIO/mitosis" /></a>
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/@builder.io/mitosis"><img alt="Types" src="https://img.shields.io/npm/types/@builder.io/mitosis" /></a>
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/@builder.io/mitosis" rel="nofollow"><img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@builder.io/mitosis.svg?sanitize=true"></a>
</p>

## Overview

Mitosis provides a unified development experience across all frameworks, enabling you to build components in a single codebase and compile them to React, Vue, Angular, Svelte, Solid, Alpine, Qwik, and more.

Using Mitosis, you can:

- Maintain a consistent design system across multiple frameworks ([example](https://github.com/db-ui/mono))
- Sync your [design systems from Figma to code](https://mitosis.builder.io/docs/figma/) and publish them to npm across frameworks
- Avoid the [pitfalls of web components](https://mitosis.builder.io/docs/overview/) by compiling to native framework code

_PS: We are actively looking for folks interested in becoming contributors to Mitosis. If interested, look at our list of [good first issues](https://github.com/BuilderIO/mitosis/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22) or reach out on our [Discord](https://discord.gg/SNusEyNGsx)_

## Quickstart

To create a new Mitosis project from scratch, run the following `create` command:

```bash
npm create @builder.io/mitosis@latest
```

Once completed, make sure to read the `README.md` generated in your new project. It will explain the structure of your project, and provide a walkthrough on how to build/test your components.

Read the full [getting started docs](https://mitosis.builder.io/docs/quickstart/) for more.

## Resources

- [Documentation](https://mitosis.builder.io/docs)
- [Playground](https://mitosis.builder.io/playground)
- [Figma integration](https://mitosis.builder.io/docs/figma/)
- [Mitosis Discord](https://discord.gg/SNusEyNGsx)

## Contribute

Interested in contribute? Head over to the [developer](developer/) docs and see how you can get setup & started!

Once you're ready, checkout our [issues](https://github.com/BuilderIO/mitosis/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22) page and grab your first issue!

<br>
<br>
<p align="center">
   <a href="https://www.builder.io/m/developers">
      <picture>
         <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/844291/230786554-eb225eeb-2f6b-4286-b8c2-535b1131744a.png">
         <img width="250" alt="Made with love by Builder.io" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/844291/230786555-a58479e4-75f3-4222-a6eb-74c5af953eac.png">
       </picture>
   </a>
</p>

Commit message:

add more outputs to playground (#1429)
* add more outputs

* fix code syncing to url by throttling

* fix

* fix docs example

* fix an example via feedback

* remove type definition from doc

* little better padding

* delete empty code block

* docs and readme updates

README.MD, after:

<br>
<br>
<p align="center">
  <picture>
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://cdn.builder.io/api/v1/image/assets%2FYJIGb4i01jvw0SRdL5Bt%2F44413839f214431290930e447572b843">
    <img width="400" alt="Mitosis logo" src="https://cdn.builder.io/api/v1/image/assets%2FYJIGb4i01jvw0SRdL5Bt%2F570f689e59824cb78cf5773350ab4144">
  </picture>
</p>

<p align="center">
  Write components once, compile to every framework
</p>

<br>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/prettier/prettier"><img alt="code style: prettier" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/code_style-prettier-ff69b4.svg" /></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/BuilderIO/mitosis/pulls"><img alt="PRs Welcome" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg" /></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/BuilderIO/mitosis"><img alt="License" src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/BuilderIO/mitosis" /></a>
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/@builder.io/mitosis"><img alt="Types" src="https://img.shields.io/npm/types/@builder.io/mitosis" /></a>
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/@builder.io/mitosis" rel="nofollow"><img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@builder.io/mitosis.svg?sanitize=true"></a>
</p>

## Overview

Mitosis provides a unified development experience across all frameworks, enabling you to build components in a single codebase and compile them to React, Vue, Angular, Svelte, Solid, Alpine, Qwik, and more.

Using Mitosis, you can:

- Maintain a consistent design system across multiple frameworks ([example](https://github.com/db-ui/mono))
- Sync your [design systems from Figma to code](https://mitosis.builder.io/docs/figma/) and publish them to npm across frameworks
- Avoid the [pitfalls of web components](https://mitosis.builder.io/docs/overview/) by compiling to native framework code

_PS: We are actively looking for folks interested in becoming contributors to Mitosis. If interested, look at our list of [good first issues](https://github.com/BuilderIO/mitosis/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22) or reach out on our [Discord](https://discord.gg/SNusEyNGsx)_

![Gif example of devloping with Mitosis](https://cdn.builder.io/api/v1/file/assets%2FYJIGb4i01jvw0SRdL5Bt%2F868af1e6d9fd4923b18ecd1d892f3a6e)

## Quickstart

To create a new Mitosis project from scratch, run the following `create` command:

```bash
npm create @builder.io/mitosis@latest
```

Once completed, make sure to read the `README.md` generated in your new project. It will explain the structure of your project, and provide a walkthrough on how to build/test your components.

Read the full [getting started docs](https://mitosis.builder.io/docs/quickstart/) for more.

### Integration with Figma

This integration streamlines the design-to-code process, ensuring that your design system remains consistent across all platforms from one singular source of truth. Learn more about our [Figma integration](https://mitosis.builder.io/docs/figma).

![Demo of using Mitosis with Figma](https://cdn.builder.io/api/v1/file/assets%2FYJIGb4i01jvw0SRdL5Bt%2Fde65b7d174354c0baf189ee4e652a31b)

## Resources

- [Documentation](https://mitosis.builder.io/docs)
- [Playground](https://mitosis.builder.io/playground)
- [Figma integration](https://mitosis.builder.io/docs/figma/)
- [Mitosis Discord](https://discord.gg/SNusEyNGsx)

## Contribute

Interested in contribute? Head over to the [developer](developer/) docs and see how you can get setup & started!

Once you're ready, checkout our [issues](https://github.com/BuilderIO/mitosis/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22) page and grab your first issue!

<br>
<br>
<p align="center">
   <a href="https://www.builder.io/m/developers">
      <picture>
         <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/844291/230786554-eb225eeb-2f6b-4286-b8c2-535b1131744a.png">
         <img width="250" alt="Made with love by Builder.io" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/844291/230786555-a58479e4-75f3-4222-a6eb-74c5af953eac.png">
       </picture>
   </a>
</p>
